README.md, before:

# rust-ebpf-demo

This provides a working example of building and running an eBPF program in Rust.
This code was adapted from
http://unhandledexpression.com/general/rust/2018/02/02/poc-compiling-to-ebpf-from-rust.html.

I created this repo because:

* The original blog post does not link to a GitHub repo with the actual code.
* The code samples and command-line output in the blog post have been improperly HTML-escaped
  such that they are incorrect. For example, in the Rust code, where there should
  be `->`, there is `-&gt;`. What's worse is that snippets of code that exist
  between opening and closing angle brackets (`<` and `>`) have also been stripped,
  which means critical code for traits is missing.

## Building the Code

I built and ran this code on Ubuntu 18.04.1 with LLVM 7
(the setup steps I went through to get the LLVM libraries are included as part
of https://github.com/iovisor/bcc/issues/1964).

First, use the LLVM toolchain to compile the Rust code to LLVM bytecode,
and then to BPF bytecode using the shell script from the blog post:

```sh
$ ./build.sh
```

Note that the contents of `hello.ll` in the blog post are not quite correct
due to the formatting issues mentioned above. Here is what I ended up with:

```
; ModuleID = 'hello.2012078a-cgu.0'
source_filename = "hello.2012078a-cgu.0"
target datalayout = "e-m:e-i64:64-f80:128-n8:16:32:64-S128"
target triple = "x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu"

@_license = local_unnamed_addr constant <{ [4 x i8] }> <{ [4 x i8] c"GPL\00" }>, section "license", align 1
@_version = local_unnamed_addr constant <{ [4 x i8] }> <{ [4 x i8] c"\FE\FF\FF\FF" }>, section "version", align 4

; Function Attrs: uwtable
define i32 @kprobe__sys_clone(i8* nocapture readnone %_ctx) unnamed_addr #0 section "kprobe/SyS_clone" {
start:
  %msg = alloca [17 x i8], align 16
  %0 = getelementptr inbounds [17 x i8], [17 x i8]* %msg, i64 0, i64 0
  call void @llvm.lifetime.start.p0i8(i64 17, i8* nonnull %0)
  %1 = bitcast [17 x i8]* %msg to <16 x i8>*
  store <16 x i8> <i8 104, i8 101, i8 108, i8 108, i8 111, i8 32, i8 102, i8 114, i8 111, i8 109, i8 32, i8 114, i8 117, i8 115, i8 116, i8 10>, <16 x i8>* %1, align 16
  %2 = getelementptr inbounds [17 x i8], [17 x i8]* %msg, i64 0, i64 16
  store i8 0, i8* %2, align 16
  %3 = call i32 inttoptr (i64 6 to i32 (i8*, i32)*)(i8* nonnull %0, i32 17)
  call void @llvm.lifetime.end.p0i8(i64 17, i8* nonnull %0)
  ret i32 0
}

; Function Attrs: argmemonly nounwind
declare void @llvm.lifetime.start.p0i8(i64, i8* nocapture) #1

; Function Attrs: argmemonly nounwind
declare void @llvm.lifetime.end.p0i8(i64, i8* nocapture) #1

attributes #0 = { uwtable "probe-stack"="__rust_probestack" }
attributes #1 = { argmemonly nounwind }
```

Also, because I used LLVM 7, my disassembly of `hello.o` is also slightly different:

```
$ llvm-objdump-7 -S target/bpf/hello.o  # Note the use of llvm-objdump-7 instead of llvm-objdump-4.0

target/bpf/hello.o:	file format ELF64-BPF

Disassembly of section kprobe/SyS_clone:
kprobe__sys_clone:
       0:	18 01 00 00 6f 6d 20 72 00 00 00 00 75 73 74 0a 	r1 = 753353985940811119 ll
       2:	7b 1a e8 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 24) = r1
       3:	18 01 00 00 68 65 6c 6c 00 00 00 00 6f 20 66 72 	r1 = 8243311830880773480 ll
       5:	7b 1a e0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 32) = r1
       6:	b7 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = 0
       7:	73 1a f0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u8 *)(r10 - 16) = r1
       8:	bf a1 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = r10
       9:	07 01 00 00 e0 ff ff ff 	r1 += -32
      10:	b7 02 00 00 11 00 00 00 	r2 = 17
      11:	85 00 00 00 06 00 00 00 	call 6
      12:	b7 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r0 = 0
      13:	95 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	exit
```

The `-print-imm-hex` flag makes some of the annotations easier to understand:

```
$ llvm-objdump-7 -S -print-imm-hex target/bpf/hello.o

target/bpf/hello.o:	file format ELF64-BPF

Disassembly of section kprobe/SyS_clone:
kprobe__sys_clone:
       0:	18 01 00 00 6f 6d 20 72 00 00 00 00 75 73 74 0a 	r1 = 0xa74737572206d6f ll
       2:	7b 1a e8 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 0x18) = r1
       3:	18 01 00 00 68 65 6c 6c 00 00 00 00 6f 20 66 72 	r1 = 0x7266206f6c6c6568 ll
       5:	7b 1a e0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 0x20) = r1
       6:	b7 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = 0x0
       7:	73 1a f0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u8 *)(r10 - 0x10) = r1
       8:	bf a1 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = r10
       9:	07 01 00 00 e0 ff ff ff 	r1 += -0x20
      10:	b7 02 00 00 11 00 00 00 	r2 = 0x11
      11:	85 00 00 00 06 00 00 00 	call 0x6
      12:	b7 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r0 = 0x0
      13:	95 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	exit
```

## Annotated Bytecode


I found [this unofficial eBPF spec](https://github.com/iovisor/bpf-docs/blob/master/eBPF.md)
helpful in understanding the assembly, as it documents the opcodes.
(I found this much easier than reading `bpf_common.h` and `bpf.h`.)

Here are my personal annotations for the bytecode. I use the hex or decimal
version of the comment from the `llvm-objdump-7` output depending on which
makes it easier to explain the instruction. In particular, be aware of the
general encoding of an eBPF instruction (this is taken from the spec linked above):

```
msb                                                        lsb
+------------------------+----------------+----+----+--------+
|immediate               |offset          |src |dst |opcode  |
+------------------------+----------------+----+----+--------+
```

From least significant to most significant bit:

* 8 bit opcode
* 4 bit destination register (dst)
* 4 bit source register (src)
* 16 bit offset
* 32 bit immediate (imm)

**TODO: Some of the stuff around the writing of the `char*` bytes is backwards.
This needs to be fixed. lsb vs. msb is confusing sometimes...**

### Instructions 0 and 1

opcode `0x18` is described as `lddw dst, imm`, so this does a wide (8-byte)
load into register `r1` (denoted by first nibble of the second byte, `1`).
Each instruction has 4 bytes of `imm`, so instruction 0 loads `0x6f6d2072`,
which corresponds to `"om r"` while the `0x7573740a` in instruction 1
corresponds to `"ust\n"`.

```
 0:	18 01 00 00 6f 6d 20 72 00 00 00 00 75 73 74 0a 	r1 = 0xa74737572206d6f ll
```

After these instructions, `r1` contains the second half of the string
argument to `trace_printk()`: `"om rust\n"`.

### Instruction 2

opcode `0x7b` is described as `stxdw [dst+off], src`, so this does a
wide store (8 bytes) of the contents in the `src` register
into an offset of the address specified by the `dst` register.
Recall that the second byte is a combination of a src nibble
(1=r1) in this case and a dst nibble (a=r10).
`ffe8` as a signed, two's complement 16 bit number is -24,
which is the expected offset.

```
 2:	7b 1a e8 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 24) = r1
```

According to [these docs](https://cilium.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2/bpf/#instruction-set):

> Register `r10` is the only register which is read-only and contains the
> frame pointer address in order to access the BPF stack space.
> The remaining `r0` - `r9` registers are general purpose and of read/write nature.

Now bytes [-24, -32) relative to the stack pointer should contain `"om rust\n"`.

### Instructions 3 and 4

Again, we have opcode `0x18` because there is still more of the string to load!
`0x68656c6c` corresponds to `"hell"` and `0x6f206672` corresponds to `"o fr"`.

```
 3:	18 01 00 00 68 65 6c 6c 00 00 00 00 6f 20 66 72 	r1 = 0x7266206f6c6c6568 ll
```

### Instruction 5

This is the same as instruction 2 except now we have `ffe0`
instead of `ffe8`, which is 8 less than `e0`, or -32, as expected.

```
 5:	7b 1a e0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 32) = r1
```

### Instructions 6-7

The string `"hello from rust\n\0"` is 17 bytes long.
We have already written the first 16 bytes, so we need to
write the final `\0` byte into our stack, which is accomplished
by this pair of instructions:

```
 6:	b7 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = 0
 7:	73 1a f0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u8 *)(r10 - 16) = r1
```

Because we are storing a single byte, we use opcode `0x73`
(described as `stxb [dst+off], src`) instead of `0x7b`.

### Instructions 8-11

Because we are are going to call `bpf_trace_printk()` in instruction 11,
we have to assign the appropriate values of `r1` and `r2` to the first
and second arguments of `bpf_trace_printk()`, respectively. Recall that
the prototype of the function is:

```
int bpf_trace_printk(const char *fmt, u32 fmt_size, ...)
```

As such, `r1` must contain the address of the format string and `r2`
must contain the `fmt_size`.
Instruction 8 copies the frame pointer address from `r10` and
then instruction 9 subtracts 32 from it because that is the
offset relative to the stack frame where we wrote our `char*` data
(see instruction 5).

Because the `17` was specified as the second argument to `BPF_FUNC_trace_printk`
in the original `lib.rs` file, `r2` is assigned `17` directly.

Once `r1` and `r2` are set, we call the appropriate function.
Recall that `6` corresponds to the position of `BPF_FUNC_trace_printk`
in [`enum bpf_func_id`](https://elixir.bootlin.com/linux/v4.7/source/include/uapi/linux/bpf.h#L153).

```
 8:	bf a1 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = r10
 9:	07 01 00 00 e0 ff ff ff 	r1 += -32
10:	b7 02 00 00 11 00 00 00 	r2 = 17
11:	85 00 00 00 06 00 00 00 	call 6
```

### Instructions 12-13

According to [these docs](https://cilium.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2/bpf/#instruction-set):

> `r0` contains the return value of a helper function call.

Because our function ends with `return 0;`, we assign `0` to `r0`
and then exit using opcode `0x95`.

```
12:	b7 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r0 = 0
13:	95 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	exit
```

## Running the Code

I was hoping to extract the BPF bytecode from `hello.o` and use it to create
a standalone C program that loads the BPF program. My attempt lives in
[`load-bpf.c`](./c/load-bpf.c). Unfortunately, reading the bytecode out of
`hello.o` to turn it into a `bpf_insn[]` was non-trivial, so I abandoned that
approach and took the suggestion of the blog post to leverage [some Go code
referenced in a separate blog post](https://kinvolk.io/blog/2017/09/an-update-on-gobpf---elf-loading-uprobes-more-program-types/).
Indeed, after reading through [gobpf/elf/elf.go](https://github.com/iovisor/gobpf/blob/master/elf/elf.go), it appears a proper
ELF library is necessary to read the bytes out of `hello.o` and turn them into
BPF bytecode (though the Go code could potentially be used to dump the BPF bytecode
to a binary file that is read by my `load-bpf.c` file).

For convenience, the Go code also lives in this repo and should be easy to run
from the `go/` folder:

```sh
$ go build
$ sudo go run main.go  # This runs until you ctrl-C.
```

As noted in the [README](./go/README.md), until you ctrl-C `main.go`,
the kprobe will be applied. Verify that the `trace_printk()` call from your
BPF program is working correctly by running:

```sh
sudo cat /sys/kernel/debug/tracing/trace_pipe
```

Enjoy!

## PostScript ##

One surprising theing that I learned while writing `load-bpf.c` is that
despite the presence of `#include <linux/bpf.h>` and the implications of
`man 2 bpf`, you cannot invoke the `bpf()` syscall like this:

```c
bpf(BPF_PROG_LOAD, &attr, sizeof(attr));
```

Instead, you have to use `syscall(2)`:

```c
#include <sys/syscall.h>
#include <unistd.h>

// ...

syscall(__NR_bpf, BPF_PROG_LOAD, &attr, sizeof(attr));
```

Hopefully this saves someone some time.

Commit message:

Add clarifying comment about "long long" hex literal.

README.md, after:

# rust-ebpf-demo

This provides a working example of building and running an eBPF program in Rust.
This code was adapted from
http://unhandledexpression.com/general/rust/2018/02/02/poc-compiling-to-ebpf-from-rust.html.

I created this repo because:

* The original blog post does not link to a GitHub repo with the actual code.
* The code samples and command-line output in the blog post have been improperly HTML-escaped
  such that they are incorrect. For example, in the Rust code, where there should
  be `->`, there is `-&gt;`. What's worse is that snippets of code that exist
  between opening and closing angle brackets (`<` and `>`) have also been stripped,
  which means critical code for traits is missing.

## Building the Code

I built and ran this code on Ubuntu 18.04.1 with LLVM 7
(the setup steps I went through to get the LLVM libraries are included as part
of https://github.com/iovisor/bcc/issues/1964).

First, use the LLVM toolchain to compile the Rust code to LLVM bytecode,
and then to BPF bytecode using the shell script from the blog post:

```sh
$ ./build.sh
```

Note that the contents of `hello.ll` in the blog post are not quite correct
due to the formatting issues mentioned above. Here is what I ended up with:

```
; ModuleID = 'hello.2012078a-cgu.0'
source_filename = "hello.2012078a-cgu.0"
target datalayout = "e-m:e-i64:64-f80:128-n8:16:32:64-S128"
target triple = "x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu"

@_license = local_unnamed_addr constant <{ [4 x i8] }> <{ [4 x i8] c"GPL\00" }>, section "license", align 1
@_version = local_unnamed_addr constant <{ [4 x i8] }> <{ [4 x i8] c"\FE\FF\FF\FF" }>, section "version", align 4

; Function Attrs: uwtable
define i32 @kprobe__sys_clone(i8* nocapture readnone %_ctx) unnamed_addr #0 section "kprobe/SyS_clone" {
start:
  %msg = alloca [17 x i8], align 16
  %0 = getelementptr inbounds [17 x i8], [17 x i8]* %msg, i64 0, i64 0
  call void @llvm.lifetime.start.p0i8(i64 17, i8* nonnull %0)
  %1 = bitcast [17 x i8]* %msg to <16 x i8>*
  store <16 x i8> <i8 104, i8 101, i8 108, i8 108, i8 111, i8 32, i8 102, i8 114, i8 111, i8 109, i8 32, i8 114, i8 117, i8 115, i8 116, i8 10>, <16 x i8>* %1, align 16
  %2 = getelementptr inbounds [17 x i8], [17 x i8]* %msg, i64 0, i64 16
  store i8 0, i8* %2, align 16
  %3 = call i32 inttoptr (i64 6 to i32 (i8*, i32)*)(i8* nonnull %0, i32 17)
  call void @llvm.lifetime.end.p0i8(i64 17, i8* nonnull %0)
  ret i32 0
}

; Function Attrs: argmemonly nounwind
declare void @llvm.lifetime.start.p0i8(i64, i8* nocapture) #1

; Function Attrs: argmemonly nounwind
declare void @llvm.lifetime.end.p0i8(i64, i8* nocapture) #1

attributes #0 = { uwtable "probe-stack"="__rust_probestack" }
attributes #1 = { argmemonly nounwind }
```

Also, because I used LLVM 7, my disassembly of `hello.o` is also slightly different:

```
$ llvm-objdump-7 -S target/bpf/hello.o  # Note the use of llvm-objdump-7 instead of llvm-objdump-4.0

target/bpf/hello.o:	file format ELF64-BPF

Disassembly of section kprobe/SyS_clone:
kprobe__sys_clone:
       0:	18 01 00 00 6f 6d 20 72 00 00 00 00 75 73 74 0a 	r1 = 753353985940811119 ll
       2:	7b 1a e8 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 24) = r1
       3:	18 01 00 00 68 65 6c 6c 00 00 00 00 6f 20 66 72 	r1 = 8243311830880773480 ll
       5:	7b 1a e0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 32) = r1
       6:	b7 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = 0
       7:	73 1a f0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u8 *)(r10 - 16) = r1
       8:	bf a1 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = r10
       9:	07 01 00 00 e0 ff ff ff 	r1 += -32
      10:	b7 02 00 00 11 00 00 00 	r2 = 17
      11:	85 00 00 00 06 00 00 00 	call 6
      12:	b7 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r0 = 0
      13:	95 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	exit
```

The `-print-imm-hex` flag makes some of the annotations easier to understand:

```
$ llvm-objdump-7 -S -print-imm-hex target/bpf/hello.o

target/bpf/hello.o:	file format ELF64-BPF

Disassembly of section kprobe/SyS_clone:
kprobe__sys_clone:
       0:	18 01 00 00 6f 6d 20 72 00 00 00 00 75 73 74 0a 	r1 = 0xa74737572206d6f ll
       2:	7b 1a e8 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 0x18) = r1
       3:	18 01 00 00 68 65 6c 6c 00 00 00 00 6f 20 66 72 	r1 = 0x7266206f6c6c6568 ll
       5:	7b 1a e0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 0x20) = r1
       6:	b7 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = 0x0
       7:	73 1a f0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u8 *)(r10 - 0x10) = r1
       8:	bf a1 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = r10
       9:	07 01 00 00 e0 ff ff ff 	r1 += -0x20
      10:	b7 02 00 00 11 00 00 00 	r2 = 0x11
      11:	85 00 00 00 06 00 00 00 	call 0x6
      12:	b7 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r0 = 0x0
      13:	95 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	exit
```

## Annotated Bytecode


I found [this unofficial eBPF spec](https://github.com/iovisor/bpf-docs/blob/master/eBPF.md)
helpful in understanding the assembly, as it documents the opcodes.
(I found this much easier than reading `bpf_common.h` and `bpf.h`.)

Here are my personal annotations for the bytecode. I use the hex or decimal
version of the comment from the `llvm-objdump-7` output depending on which
makes it easier to explain the instruction. In particular, be aware of the
general encoding of an eBPF instruction (this is taken from the spec linked above):

```
msb                                                        lsb
+------------------------+----------------+----+----+--------+
|immediate               |offset          |src |dst |opcode  |
+------------------------+----------------+----+----+--------+
```

From least significant to most significant bit:

* 8 bit opcode
* 4 bit destination register (dst)
* 4 bit source register (src)
* 16 bit offset
* 32 bit immediate (imm)

**TODO: Some of the stuff around the writing of the `char*` bytes is backwards.
This needs to be fixed. lsb vs. msb is confusing sometimes...**

### Instructions 0 and 1

opcode `0x18` is described as `lddw dst, imm`, so this does a wide (8-byte)
load into register `r1` (denoted by first nibble of the second byte, `1`).
Each instruction has 4 bytes of `imm`, so instruction 0 loads `0x6f6d2072`,
which corresponds to `"om r"` while the `0x7573740a` in instruction 1
corresponds to `"ust\n"`.

```
 0:	18 01 00 00 6f 6d 20 72 00 00 00 00 75 73 74 0a 	r1 = 0xa74737572206d6f ll
```

After these instructions, `r1` contains the second half of the string
argument to `trace_printk()`: `"om rust\n"`.

(Although the generated comment from `llvm-objdump-7` is `r1 = 0xa74737572206d6f`,
it's slightly easier to think of this as `r1 = 0x0a74737572206d6f` so that it's
clearer that the high order byte is `0x0a` and not `0xa7`.)

### Instruction 2

opcode `0x7b` is described as `stxdw [dst+off], src`, so this does a
wide store (8 bytes) of the contents in the `src` register
into an offset of the address specified by the `dst` register.
Recall that the second byte is a combination of a src nibble
(1=r1) in this case and a dst nibble (a=r10).
`ffe8` as a signed, two's complement 16 bit number is -24,
which is the expected offset.

```
 2:	7b 1a e8 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 24) = r1
```

According to [these docs](https://cilium.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2/bpf/#instruction-set):

> Register `r10` is the only register which is read-only and contains the
> frame pointer address in order to access the BPF stack space.
> The remaining `r0` - `r9` registers are general purpose and of read/write nature.

Now bytes [-24, -32) relative to the stack pointer should contain `"om rust\n"`.

### Instructions 3 and 4

Again, we have opcode `0x18` because there is still more of the string to load!
`0x68656c6c` corresponds to `"hell"` and `0x6f206672` corresponds to `"o fr"`.

```
 3:	18 01 00 00 68 65 6c 6c 00 00 00 00 6f 20 66 72 	r1 = 0x7266206f6c6c6568 ll
```

### Instruction 5

This is the same as instruction 2 except now we have `ffe0`
instead of `ffe8`, which is 8 less than `e0`, or -32, as expected.

```
 5:	7b 1a e0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u64 *)(r10 - 32) = r1
```

### Instructions 6-7

The string `"hello from rust\n\0"` is 17 bytes long.
We have already written the first 16 bytes, so we need to
write the final `\0` byte into our stack, which is accomplished
by this pair of instructions:

```
 6:	b7 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = 0
 7:	73 1a f0 ff 00 00 00 00 	*(u8 *)(r10 - 16) = r1
```

Because we are storing a single byte, we use opcode `0x73`
(described as `stxb [dst+off], src`) instead of `0x7b`.

### Instructions 8-11

Because we are are going to call `bpf_trace_printk()` in instruction 11,
we have to assign the appropriate values of `r1` and `r2` to the first
and second arguments of `bpf_trace_printk()`, respectively. Recall that
the prototype of the function is:

```
int bpf_trace_printk(const char *fmt, u32 fmt_size, ...)
```

As such, `r1` must contain the address of the format string and `r2`
must contain the `fmt_size`.
Instruction 8 copies the frame pointer address from `r10` and
then instruction 9 subtracts 32 from it because that is the
offset relative to the stack frame where we wrote our `char*` data
(see instruction 5).

Because the `17` was specified as the second argument to `BPF_FUNC_trace_printk`
in the original `lib.rs` file, `r2` is assigned `17` directly.

Once `r1` and `r2` are set, we call the appropriate function.
Recall that `6` corresponds to the position of `BPF_FUNC_trace_printk`
in [`enum bpf_func_id`](https://elixir.bootlin.com/linux/v4.7/source/include/uapi/linux/bpf.h#L153).

```
 8:	bf a1 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r1 = r10
 9:	07 01 00 00 e0 ff ff ff 	r1 += -32
10:	b7 02 00 00 11 00 00 00 	r2 = 17
11:	85 00 00 00 06 00 00 00 	call 6
```

### Instructions 12-13

According to [these docs](https://cilium.readthedocs.io/en/v1.2/bpf/#instruction-set):

> `r0` contains the return value of a helper function call.

Because our function ends with `return 0;`, we assign `0` to `r0`
and then exit using opcode `0x95`.

```
12:	b7 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	r0 = 0
13:	95 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 	exit
```

## Running the Code

I was hoping to extract the BPF bytecode from `hello.o` and use it to create
a standalone C program that loads the BPF program. My attempt lives in
[`load-bpf.c`](./c/load-bpf.c). Unfortunately, reading the bytecode out of
`hello.o` to turn it into a `bpf_insn[]` was non-trivial, so I abandoned that
approach and took the suggestion of the blog post to leverage [some Go code
referenced in a separate blog post](https://kinvolk.io/blog/2017/09/an-update-on-gobpf---elf-loading-uprobes-more-program-types/).
Indeed, after reading through [gobpf/elf/elf.go](https://github.com/iovisor/gobpf/blob/master/elf/elf.go), it appears a proper
ELF library is necessary to read the bytes out of `hello.o` and turn them into
BPF bytecode (though the Go code could potentially be used to dump the BPF bytecode
to a binary file that is read by my `load-bpf.c` file).

For convenience, the Go code also lives in this repo and should be easy to run
from the `go/` folder:

```sh
$ go build
$ sudo go run main.go  # This runs until you ctrl-C.
```

As noted in the [README](./go/README.md), until you ctrl-C `main.go`,
the kprobe will be applied. Verify that the `trace_printk()` call from your
BPF program is working correctly by running:

```sh
sudo cat /sys/kernel/debug/tracing/trace_pipe
```

Enjoy!

## PostScript ##

One surprising theing that I learned while writing `load-bpf.c` is that
despite the presence of `#include <linux/bpf.h>` and the implications of
`man 2 bpf`, you cannot invoke the `bpf()` syscall like this:

```c
bpf(BPF_PROG_LOAD, &attr, sizeof(attr));
```

Instead, you have to use `syscall(2)`:

```c
#include <sys/syscall.h>
#include <unistd.h>

// ...

syscall(__NR_bpf, BPF_PROG_LOAD, &attr, sizeof(attr));
```

Hopefully this saves someone some time.
